README.md, before:

# Puppeteer Pinger

Keeps your Render.com apps alive by visiting them with a real browser at configurable intervals. This generates actual external HTTP traffic that prevents Render's free tier apps from spinning down.

## How It Works

1. Runs on Render as a Docker web service
2. At your configured interval (default 10 minutes), launches Puppeteer browser
3. Visits each app URL (including itself!)
4. These are real external requests that keep apps active

## Setup

### 1. Local Testing (Optional)

Create a `.env` file with your configuration:
```
PING_URLS=http://localhost:3000, https://your-app.onrender.com
PING_INTERVAL_MIN=5
PAGE_WAIT_SEC=90
SMTP_USER=your-email@gmail.com
SMTP_PASS=your-app-password
NOTIFY_EMAIL=your-email@gmail.com
```

Then run:
```bash
npm install
npm start
```

Visit `http://localhost:3000` to see status or `/ping-now` to trigger a test cycle.

### 2. Deploy to Render

1. **Push to GitHub:**
   ```bash
   git init
   git add .
   git commit -m "Initial commit"
   git branch -M main
   git remote add origin YOUR_GITHUB_REPO_URL
   git push -u origin main
   ```

2. **Create Web Service on Render:**
   - Go to [Render Dashboard](https://dashboard.render.com/)
   - Click "New +" → "Web Service"
   - Connect your GitHub repo
   - Configure:
     - **Name:** `puppeteer-pinger`
     - **Environment:** `Docker`
     - **Instance Type:** `Free`
     - **Auto-Deploy:** `Yes`

3. **Add Environment Variables:**
   After deployment, add these in the Render dashboard (Environment tab):

   - `PING_URLS` - Your deployed URL and any other apps (comma-separated)
   - `PING_INTERVAL_MIN` - How often to ping (e.g., 10 for 10 minutes)
   - Optional: Email variables (`SMTP_USER`, `SMTP_PASS`, `NOTIFY_EMAIL`)

   Example:
   ```
   PING_URLS=https://puppeteer-pinger.onrender.com, https://your-other-app.onrender.com
   PING_INTERVAL_MIN=10
   ```

## Endpoints

- `GET /` - Health check, shows last run time and status
- `GET /ping-now` - Manually trigger a ping cycle (for testing)

## Features

- Configurable ping interval (default: 10 minutes)
- Configurable list of URLs to monitor
- First ping starts 30 seconds after deployment
- Detailed logging with timestamps and durations
- Error handling for individual app failures
- Email alerts when apps fail (optional)
- Docker container with all Chrome dependencies
- Works around Render's inactivity spin-down

## Configuration

All configuration is done via environment variables in Render.

### Required Variables

- `PING_URLS` - Comma-separated list of URLs to ping (spaces after commas are fine)
  - Example: `https://app1.onrender.com, https://app2.onrender.com, https://app3.onrender.com`
- `PING_INTERVAL_MIN` - How often to ping in minutes (default: 10)
- `PAGE_WAIT_SEC` - Seconds to keep all tabs open (default: 120, ensures full spin-up)

### Email Notifications (Optional)

Get notified when apps fail to respond:

- `SMTP_USER` - Your Gmail address
- `SMTP_PASS` - Gmail app password (generate at https://myaccount.google.com/apppasswords)
- `NOTIFY_EMAIL` - Email to receive alerts

If email variables are not set, the app works normally without alerts.

## How It Keeps Apps Alive

When Render apps on the free tier have no external traffic for 15 minutes, they spin down. This app:
1. Pings itself (external traffic)
2. Uses Puppeteer to visit other apps (real HTTP requests)
3. Runs at your configured interval (default 10 minutes, before 15-minute timeout)
4. Keeps all apps active and responsive

## Troubleshooting

**Apps still spinning down:**
- Check Render logs to ensure pings run every 10 minutes
- Verify all URLs are correct and accessible
- Make sure the app is pinging itself

**Puppeteer errors:**
- Dockerfile includes all Chrome dependencies
- Render automatically detects Dockerfile and builds correctly
- Check logs for specific error messages

**Timeout errors:**
- Increase `TIMEOUT_MS` in index.js
- Some apps may take longer to wake up from sleep

## Tech Stack

- Node.js 18
- Express
- Puppeteer (headless Chrome)
- Docker

## License

MIT

Commit message:

Replace email notifications with Discord webhooks

README.md, after:

# Puppeteer Pinger

Keeps your Render.com apps alive by visiting them with a real browser at configurable intervals. This generates actual external HTTP traffic that prevents Render's free tier apps from spinning down.

## How It Works

1. Runs on Render as a Docker web service
2. At your configured interval (default 10 minutes), launches Puppeteer browser
3. Visits each app URL (including itself!)
4. These are real external requests that keep apps active

## Setup

### 1. Local Testing (Optional)

Create a `.env` file with your configuration:
```
PING_URLS=http://localhost:3000, https://your-app.onrender.com
PING_INTERVAL_MIN=5
PAGE_WAIT_SEC=180
DISCORD_WEBHOOK=https://discord.com/api/webhooks/YOUR_WEBHOOK_URL
```

Then run:
```bash
npm install
npm start
```

Visit `http://localhost:3000` to see status or `/ping-now` to trigger a test cycle.

### 2. Deploy to Render

1. **Push to GitHub:**
   ```bash
   git init
   git add .
   git commit -m "Initial commit"
   git branch -M main
   git remote add origin YOUR_GITHUB_REPO_URL
   git push -u origin main
   ```

2. **Create Web Service on Render:**
   - Go to [Render Dashboard](https://dashboard.render.com/)
   - Click "New +" → "Web Service"
   - Connect your GitHub repo
   - Configure:
     - **Name:** `puppeteer-pinger`
     - **Environment:** `Docker`
     - **Instance Type:** `Free`
     - **Auto-Deploy:** `Yes`

3. **Add Environment Variables:**
   After deployment, add these in the Render dashboard (Environment tab):

   - `PING_URLS` - Your deployed URL and any other apps (comma-separated)
   - `PING_INTERVAL_MIN` - How often to ping (e.g., 10 for 10 minutes)
   - `PAGE_WAIT_SEC` - How long to keep tabs open (e.g., 180 for 3 minutes)
   - `DISCORD_WEBHOOK` - Discord webhook URL for notifications (optional)

   Example:
   ```
   PING_URLS=https://puppeteer-pinger.onrender.com, https://your-other-app.onrender.com
   PING_INTERVAL_MIN=10
   PAGE_WAIT_SEC=180
   DISCORD_WEBHOOK=https://discord.com/api/webhooks/YOUR_WEBHOOK_URL
   ```

## Endpoints

- `GET /` - Health check, shows last run time and status
- `GET /ping-now` - Manually trigger a ping cycle (for testing)

## Features

- Configurable ping interval (default: 10 minutes)
- Configurable list of URLs to monitor
- Opens all apps in parallel tabs for efficiency
- Configurable wait time to ensure full spin-up
- First ping starts 30 seconds after deployment
- Detailed logging with timestamps and durations
- Error handling for individual app failures
- Discord notifications when apps fail (optional)
- Docker container with all Chrome dependencies
- Works around Render's inactivity spin-down

## Configuration

All configuration is done via environment variables in Render.

### Required Variables

- `PING_URLS` - Comma-separated list of URLs to ping (spaces after commas are fine)
  - Example: `https://app1.onrender.com, https://app2.onrender.com, https://app3.onrender.com`
- `PING_INTERVAL_MIN` - How often to ping in minutes (default: 10)
- `PAGE_WAIT_SEC` - Seconds to keep all tabs open (default: 120, ensures full spin-up)

### Discord Notifications (Optional)

Get notified in Discord when apps fail to respond:

- `DISCORD_WEBHOOK` - Discord webhook URL

**How to get a Discord webhook:**
1. Open Discord and create a server (or use existing)
2. Right-click a channel → Edit Channel → Integrations
3. Click Webhooks → New Webhook → Copy Webhook URL

If webhook is not set, the app works normally without notifications.

## How It Keeps Apps Alive

When Render apps on the free tier have no external traffic for 15 minutes, they spin down. This app:
1. Pings itself (external traffic)
2. Uses Puppeteer to visit other apps (real HTTP requests)
3. Runs at your configured interval (default 10 minutes, before 15-minute timeout)
4. Keeps all apps active and responsive

## Troubleshooting

**Apps still spinning down:**
- Check Render logs to ensure pings run every 10 minutes
- Verify all URLs are correct and accessible
- Make sure the app is pinging itself

**Puppeteer errors:**
- Dockerfile includes all Chrome dependencies
- Render automatically detects Dockerfile and builds correctly
- Check logs for specific error messages

**Timeout errors:**
- Increase `TIMEOUT_MS` in index.js
- Some apps may take longer to wake up from sleep

## Tech Stack

- Node.js 18
- Express
- Puppeteer (headless Chrome)
- Docker

## License

MIT
